# What is sub-domain enumeration?
Sub-domain enumeration is finding the possible subdomains for a domain (eg. academy.networkchuck.com, admin.networkchuck.com), trying to expand our attack surface area to find more possible points of vulnerabilities.<br>

3 methods:
- [Brute Force](#brute-force)
- [OSINT](#osint)
- [Virtual Host](#virtual-host)

## Brute Force - DNS bruteforce
<a name="brute-force"></a>
We can use a tool like [DNSRecon](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/man1/dnsrecon.1.html) to go through thousands or even millions of common subdomain names on a wordlist and see if any result in a successful DNS resolution.


## OSINT
<a name="osint"></a>
### OSINT - SSL/TLS
When a SSL/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/ Transport Layer Security) certificate is generated by a Certificate Authority (CA), they will log it into the Certificate Transparency (CT) logs that is accessible to the public, so as to prevent malicious and accidentally created certs from being used. We can use this logs to find subdomains belonging to a domain. Sites like https://crt.sh offer a searchable database of certificates that shows current and historical results.<br>

### OSINT - SSL/TLS
We can use Google dorking to filter for URLs that contain the domain name that we desire and a subdomain, but remove all results that only have the domain name. For example, we can search on Google: `site:*.tryhackme.com -site:www.tryhackme.com` to filter for URLs with the domain of tryhackme as well as a subdomain.

### OSINT - Sublist3r
[Sublist3r](https://www.kali.org/tools/sublist3r/) is a python tool that basically does the advanced google search and SSL certificate search for you and list out all the unique subdomains found. Optionally, adding the `-b` flag will also enable DNS brute-forcing to discover more subdomains.

## Virtual Host
<a name="virtual-host"></a>
Some subdomains are not accessible in a public DNS server, like development versions of a web or administration portals. Instead, the DNS records is stored in a private DNS server or recorded on the developer's machines in their `/etc/hosts` file (or `c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts` file for Windows users), which maps domain names to IP addresses. <br>

Since these servers can host multiple websites, it determines what website the client wants to access through the host header. We can make changes to the host header and monitor the response to see if we get a hit. So we can use DNS brute forcing method by changing the headers repeatedly. <br>

We can use the tool [ffuf](https://hackviser.com/tactics/tools/ffuf) (Fuzz Faster You Fool) for this task. Example command: `user@machine$ ffuf -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/namelist.txt -H "Host: FUZZ.acmeitsupport.thm" -u http://10.49.161.236 -fs {size}`.<br>

- -w specifies the wordlist we are going to use
- -H adds/edits a header, the FUZZ keyword is the variable that we will be fuzzing
- -u is the target URL. In this case, we are specifying the server we want to target
- -fs is filter out all outputs with the exact size of 2395. Replace the number with the most frequently occuring number as these are the error pages.
