# Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR)
An access control vulnerability. The web server takes the user's request to retrieve data like files without first checking if the user has the privilege to do so.

For example, your user profile is in the url `http://online-service.thm/profile?user_id=1305`. You might change the user_id to 1000 to for fun and discover another profile of another user. This is an IDOR vulnerability, as the web server doesn't check whether the data requested should be accessible to you. <br>

When passing data from page to page either though POST data, cookies, query strings, websites often use Base64 to encode their data so the data will be received exactly as it was sent. <br>

For IDs like `user_id=1305` websites may also hash them so it becomes `user_id=fd5c905bcd8c3348ad1b35d7231ee2b1` (md5). A web service like https://crackstation.net/ has billions of hash-to-value mappings to help you find the plain text value. If you can't uncover the value, you can create two accounts, and then swap their ID values to see if there is an IDOR vulnerability. <br>

IDOR vulnerability may not always be something you discover through the address bar. It could be content your browser loads in via an AJAX request or something that you find referenced in a JavaScript file. <br>

Sometimes endpoints could have an unreferenced parameter that may have been of some use during development and got pushed to production. For example, you may notice a call to `/user/details` displaying your user information (authenticated through your session). But through an attack known as parameter mining, you discover a parameter called `user_id` that you can use to display other users' information, for example, `/user/details?user_id=123`.

